# smart_garden_management_system
  Technology has made significant advances in every aspect of life, including industry and agriculture. Our survival is largely reliant on agricultural progress. Researchers are attempting to incorporate current technologies into agriculture in order to establish new strategies for improving gricultural and production health. People in big cities are having trouble maintaining their homemade gardens due to a lack of qualified gardeners. The best way to solve this problem is to modernize traditional gardening methods while also keeping a close eye on plant growth. As a result, the suggested system aims to provide a smart means of monitoring plant growth through the use of automation and IoT technology. The internet of things offers a variety of uses for agricultural growth and monitoring. 
  The main theme of this project is to automate maintainenance and nourishment of plants in garden while also providing the user manual access remotely and also provide him/her multiple plant status data.A Raspberry Pi microcontroller is used to collect data from the garden such as temperature, moisture, luminosity, and humidity of the soil through sensors and store them in the a cloud (preferrably firebase), which can be accessed through smartphones by a garden monitoring app we plan to design. The user would use the app to receive updates from the cloud. The raspberry pi will also contain an automated algorithm to which control can be switched such that the system becomes self sufficient and doesnt require manual input
